one way heroics by the developers
smoking wolf is a 2d forced
side-scrolling RPG and if you've never
played a game quite like that before
then we're on the same page because up
until now neither had I one way heroics
is still a roguelike game and its art
style reminds me of the original chrono
triggers overworld map with those little
characters but the way the game actually
plays is fairly unique the game starts
out with a typical character editor that
allows you to edit your name and your
class and some different perks you're
then dropped onto the world map where
it's your job to travel from the left to
the right side of the map as the player
progresses across the map new items and
new gear can be obtained sometimes just
by finding it on the ground but other
times by looting chests and boxes from
dungeons and towns and also by defeating
enemies on the map and that brings us to
the combat which if you're watching it
or even if you're playing it it looks
into a certain extent even feels like a
smooth action title but it's not it's
definitely a turn-based RPG anytime the
character does anything on screen
whether it's swinging his weapon using a
scale or item or just moving it uses up
at least one turn and any time a turn is
expended two things happen the first
thing that happens is that all the
enemies on screen get to take their
turns as well but usually this means
moving towards are attacking the player
the second thing that happens is the
darkness on the left side of the screen
gets to move forward by small increments
if the players health dips below zero
then he or she dies like you would
expect but what makes things interesting
is if you're caught by the darkness the
character also dies what this means for
the gameplay is that every weapons swing
every item usage and every step counts
just traveling across the map is smooth
and doesn't take much thought but every
time you encounter an enemy or every
time you make the choice to go into a
building or dungeon it becomes extremely
strategic because you have to be able to
escape the building or dungeon and
dispatch the enemies as neaby without
getting caught by the darkness the
system itself is pretty simple but the
game actually fooled me with its smooth
motion it took conscious effort to stop
take my hands off the keyboard and think
for a minute about my strategy remember
the game doesn't actually progress
unless you take moves and it allows you
to really think about what you're gonna
do next
I was frustrated by this in the
beginning but once I got the hang of it
I really started to have a lot of fun
with one way heroics and it's that
unique sort of strategic gameplay that
makes things fun in terms of the art
style and direction it's nothing to
write home about we've seen games that
look and feel like this before
and the biomes are all fairly typical
but the real value in one way heroics
comes from its low price and its
replayability from start to finish the
game takes half an hour or less to
complete but the replayability comes
from the fact that all of your character
stats are maintained through each
playthrough and through a mechanic
called the dimensional vault the player
gets to select a limited number of items
and weapons to take with them on
following playthroughs this doesn't seem
like much but every time you play
through your character is a little more
powerful and it gives you a little bit
more courage to explore a dungeon go
after another chest or attack a monster
that you had to run away from before and
that's actually not all you're not
limited to a single character the game
allows for multiple save slots which are
accessible through items you pick up in
the game or through NPCs that you run
into with several unlockable classes
with their own unique skill sets NPCs
that can join you as allies and
endlessly procedurally generated levels
there's a lot of time you can spend with
one-way heroics and if the gameplay
looks like something that you would
enjoy then I can easily recommend the
game at such a low price